INFO 474 
Jia Zeng
http://students.washington.edu/sophbj93/info474/hw3-data-tool/

#Tool Description

##Visual Encodings
This graph describes the data from the U.S. 2004 vehicle price dataset. I use divided bar charts as my visual layout. I chose to use a bar chart because it is easy to summarize a relative large dataset in a simple visual form. I want user to be able to compare among the car types and car make easily. When users hover over car make column on the left, it shows the prices of different cars made in that brand. When users hover over the car type column on the right, it shows the prices of the cars in that specific style. The bar charts use position encoding. Users can tell the relative quantity (vehicle price) that the bars represent by comparing the position of the bars with the axis. It is fairly easy for users to recognize special patterns like the highest and the lowest prices. It also gives the users a sense of the number of cars of the selected category by comparing the width and the number of the bars. For example, there are a lot more small/sporty/compact/large sedan than minivans because there are more bars in the chart of the small/sporty/compact/large sedan category and each bar is thinner in comparison with the ones of the minivans. I also used different colors for the categories, however I believe that it is not color encoding since a color is not assigned to a single car make or type. I used different colors because I want the users to be able to distinguish among the thinner bars. For future improvements, I want to combine the two filters so that when users hover over one controlling factor, the bars have colors that are associated with the other factor.

##Control Factors
I designed two controlling factors, the car makes and the car types. For car makes, it allows user to ask questions like, what are the highest and the lowest price of an Audi in 2004, what model is the most expensive Audi in the dataset. In terms of car types, users can ask question such as how much is the most expansive sports cars and how does it compare with the most expansive minivan. By comparing the length of the bars, users can discover that the most expansive sport car is about 15k more than the most expansive minivan. By comparing the average height, users can also tell that sports car is a relative more expansive car type.  
